---
layout: post
type: guide
title: Music
excerpt: Learning about music quality, getting good quality for all budgets, and being able to value it.
tags: ['Music', 'Ripping', 'Guide']
---
## Intro
> Note: If you don't want to learn about anything about music quality, just scroll down to“Getting Music” and click.

Hello! I see you are a newcomer to the music scene and looking to learn how to do it without all the ad spam and staying safe. Let's get started!

Below, I have separated it into three different methods: Low, High, and Lossless. At the very bottom, you can find links and resources to everything with chats, along with credits.

## Understanding Music Quality
There are different types of music qualities you can go for, and depending on what you currently have available to you, it may only be worth going for lower end quality.

> Okay sure, whatever, BitterSweet. What the fuck do you even mean by “music quality?”

The fastest way to explain is like actual products: There's cheap stuff and high-end stuff, same applies to audio.

There is **bit rate**, **bit-depth**, and **sample rates**; check out [Qobuz' demo](https://www.qobuz.com/us-en/audio-quality), it may help you understand the parts below.
<details>
    <summary>What is Bit rate?</summary>
    <p>
        This is measured in bps (bytes per second), but that's really small so by standard it's kbps (1000 bytes per second). Now, this is not what is being out putted, but what is being stored. Imagine in your file it is split up into smaller chunks by each second, kbps is the measurement of the amount of bits are in each chunk.
        <br>
        <br>
        Some music formats (codecs) like mp3 can't handle a lot of kbps, they max out "holding" at 320kbps (per chunk), while lossless formats like ogg and flac can handle up to as many kbps as you want!
        <br>
        <br>
        Most music you'll be able to get here is going to be 1411kbps, which is considered great quality, and won't make you seem like a clown.
    </p>
</details>
<details>
    <summary>What is Sample Rate?</summary>
    <p>
        This is measured in Hertz (Hz, or the frequency), or more common, kilo-Hertz (kHz is 1000 Hz). At 1 Hz the music will be captured/sampled at once per second. This would be listening to your song, and only hearing a single chunk (as described above) per second.
        <br>
        <br>
        A good bit rate for human speach is about 22kHz (22000 Hz) and for music you want as high as possible so you can capture as many chunks as possible. 44.1 kHz is standard
        <br>
        <br>
        Sample rate only really matters depnding on if you're streaming or what software you're using to play it. If you're streaming or ripping, you want as many samples as possible.
    </p>
</details>
<details>
    <summary>What is Bit Depth?</summary>
    <p>
        Bit depth is how much of the amplitude you can hear. So if your music file is played at bit depth of 16 bits, This means you can get up to 16 million (roughly) different amplitudes. Of course you can get 24bit, but humans can't hear that. Human hearing maxes out around 16bit, anything more is overkill and just to flex.
        <br>
        <br>
        Imagine your computer taking the sound and trying to make it into the orignal analog (true no data loss) quality, well the higher bit depth you have, the closer you can get to this true lossless quality, among other factors like bit rate and sample rate.
    </p>
</details>

Now let's mix them together: “1411 FLAC, 44.1 kHz/16 bit.” means we are listening on a FLAC file that has a 1411kbps encoding (1,411,000 bits per second stored). Then we can take a sample of the current chunk 44,100 times a second. The bit depth of 16 lets us know we can hear up to 16 million (roughly) different amplitudes.

> Note: 1411 FLAC, 44.1 kHz/16bit is called “CD Quality.” This is great quality to listen to.


## Headphones
> Wow! That's really cool! Let me go plugin my earbuds-

NO! CD Quality is likely too high for your equipment. You think those tiny speakers in your earbuds are going to be able to pick up every single bit? You'll need headphones like Grados, there are, of course, headphones for every budget:
<details>
    <summary>Quatroph's Headphone Budget Suggestions</summary>
    <p>
    Soon*
    </p>
</details>

## Streaming Services
Great! Now you know a little about how to value music quality, let's take a look at some streaming services to see how good they are!
- **[Spotify](https://support.spotify.com/us/article/audio-quality/)**:
    - 160kbps AAC (Free)
    - 320kbps AAC (Premium)
    <br>
    This is just all bad, not even worth looking into
- **[YouTube](https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/4603579?hl=en)**: YouTube has no max bit rate, but any music uploaded as a lossless FLAC is usually taken down because it's illegally uploaded. Most official streaming is 256-320kbps mp3. YouTube is decent for podcasts, though.
- **[Amazon HD](https://www.soundguys.com/amazon-music-hd-review-29137/)**
    - 3,739 24bit/192kHz *Orgasms*
- **[Tidal](https://tidal.com/sound-quality)**:
    - 160kbps AAC (Free), This is horrible.
    - 1411kbps FLAC, 44.1 kHz/16 bit. (Paid), This is superb quality, called Lossless or CD-Quality.
    - 2304-9216kbos FLAC, 96 kHz/24 bit. (Paid), This is complete lossless, it's called Master quality.
- **[Qobuz](https://www.qobuz.com/us-en/music/streaming/offers)**
    - Master FLAC 192 kHz/24bit. (paid) *WHROOOOOOOOOO* 
> BitterSweet! That's amazing! Thank you so much for showing me that I should pay for Qobuz, although I'm not able/willing to pay 17usd/month for Master quality!

*Keep reading.*


## Getting Music
I will update this later to also include links to more resources on a resources tab, but for now this will do.

<details>
    <summary>Free Method</summary>
    <p>
        None of these options are "amazing," but Slav Art is the best option you have. If you want to also rip videos, check out yt-dlp.
        <ul>
            <li><b>Leech off a friend's account</b>: I suggest asking for permission, continue to "Normal"</li>
            <li><b>Torrenting</b>: Not suggested for new people, so I explained it in the Normal Method</li>
            <li><b>yt-dlp</b>: <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp">yt-dlp</a> is a a tool that rips videos from a large array of sites beyond just Youtube, and its very customizable (ex: ripping just the audio). Do know that a lot of sites won't give a good music rip, but it's better then Spotify quality usually.</li>
            <li><b>Slav Art</b>:
                Slav bot is a bot that is running <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/nathom/streamrip">Streamrip</a>. The bot rips from Qobuz, Tidal, Apple Music (Private), Spotify (ZSpotify), Youtube, and Soundcloud links, compresses the files from artist/playlist/album/track, and then uploads them to a Google Drive. Once uploaded, it will then notify you with a direct download link (DDL).
                <br>
                <br>
                They're on a <a target="_blank" href="https://matrix.org">Matrix</a>, so you'll need a <a target="_blank" href="https://matrix.org/clients-matrix/">Matrix client</a>. To join, I suggest using <a target="_blank" href="https://matrix.org/docs/projects/client/fluffychat">FluffyChat</a>, or <a target="_blank" href="https://matrix.org/docs/projects/client/element">Element</a>, since they work great on any device and platfrom, plus they're easy to use.
                <br>
                <br>
                Matrix Room: #slav-art:matrix.crackhub.site
            </li>
        </ul>
    </p>
</details>

<details>
    <summary>Normal Method (VPN needed)</summary>
    <p>
        These methods are suggested and offer results that won't make you seem like a fool.
        <ul>
            <li><b>Tidal/Qobuz Rip</b>: Use <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/nathom/streamrip">Streamrip</a>, it works really well with Qobuz and Tidal does get a little spotty at times, but it's updated occasionaly to fix bugs.</li>
        </ul>
    </p>
</details>

<details>
    <summary>Pricey Method</summary>
    <p>
        These methods come with the base knowledge of the P2P community and how torrents work. For more information on how the P2P commuinty works, you can check out my other guide on P2P.
        <ul>
            <li><b>Seedbox with Lidarr</b>: The tool <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/Lidarr/Lidarr">Lidarr</a> is an automation tool like most *arr apps to find music in the best quality and begin torrenting.</li>
        </ul>
    </p>
</details>